well the UN says it's been forced to
close all its 14 food distribution
centers affecting half a million
Palestinians let's bring in Tamara alfi
she's the spokesperson for the UN Agency
for Palestinian refugees she's in close
contact with her colleagues in Gaza but
joins us live from the Jordanian Capital
Aman um tomorrow let's talk first about
the latest situation on the ground in
Gaza what are your teams telling you
about how people are coping under this
Israeli
bombardment my colleagues are telling me
that air strikes and heavy bombing
continued overnight in Gaza um affecting
um or or causing large displacements of
the residents of Gaza who are leaving
their homes uh in search of safer places
these safer places are often unwa
schools as a reminder unwa the UN Agency
for Palestinian refugees runs a network
of schools across the Gaza Strip and in
fact in the region a lot of these
schools are um
prepared or designed to turn into
shelters in case there's a need so
yesterday over
137,000 of gaza's residents had sought
shelter uh in our schools but one thing
to note is that so far 18 of the unwa
buildings uh have been damaged by the
military uh activities nearby last night
the unat headquarters in Gaza sustained
significant damage luckily no one gu
yeah and tomorrow the un's been forced
to close all of its uh all all 14 of its
distribution centers in Gaza how
important briefly are these distribution
centers and what will this closure mean
for the people who pretty much depend on
them you said it it is extremely
damaging for people it is extremely
worrying that uh the Gaza population
that depends on un uh food distribution
as a Lifeline is no longer able to
access ACC it because we're no longer
able to run these uh food distribution
centers so as a reminder um Gaza is one
of the most densely populated places uh
on Earth most of its population 70% are
Palestine refugees most of them live
under the poverty line and rely on un
for everything schools Health Centers
and food so for us it is extremely
worrying that they cannot access any of
these basic Services especially food and
in drinking water yeah and as the as the
Israeli bombardment continues are you
getting a sense tomorrow of the scale of
the number of people displaced and
they've got nowhere to
go for now the UN figures the figures uh
from Ocha the coordination um arm of the
UN speak of
187,000 people displaced that is already
much more than what un uh can receive we
can receive up to 15 50,000 in our
schools that have become shelters and
again we need to put in place a whole
system for these schools to effectively
um run as shelters and we're there yet
because we're not able to effectively
work because of the um military
activities around us um Tamara just a
final thought to you I mean given that
Israel is enforcing this total Siege on
gaja I mean you mentioned they've cut
off electricity water food and fuel what
difficulties now will your teams face on
the ground trying to help people
it is going to be extremely difficult to
run a full-fledged humanitarian uh
operation of the scale and scope that
this military situation requires if
we're not able to move around because of
the security situation and if we're not
able to bring in more supplies now as
any humanitarian agency we do have basic
food and non-f Food Supplies such as
mattresses Jans and cleaning uh material
for people in our shelters but if we're
not able to restock because of the
closure then that we're looking at the
situation that is extremely extremely
worrying all right Tamara alre the
spokesperson for the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees um in Gaza but
based in a man tomorrow thank you very
much indeed for your update